---
layout: post
title: cs231n Lecture3
subtitle: 손실함수와 최적화(Loss Functions and Optimization)
show-avatar: true
category: study
tags: [cs231n, Deep Learning, Computer Vision]
comments: true
---

Recall from last time: Challenges of recognition
- Viewpoint,  Illumination, Deformation, Occlusion, Clutter, Intraclass Variation

Recall from last time: data-driven approach, kNN
- CIFAR-10, 1-NN classifier vs. 5-NN classifier, train-test vs. train-val-test

Recall from last time: Linear Classifier
- f(x,W) = Wx + b, W: parameters or weights
1) Define a loss function
2) minimize the loss function (optimization)


A loss function tells how good our current classifier is.

Multiclass SVM loss: Hinge loss
Q1. What happens to loss if car scores change a bit?
Loss will not change, we'll still get zero loss
Q2. What is the min/max possible loss?
min=0 / max=infinity
Q3. At initialization, W is small so all s~0. What is the loss?
loss = (number of classes)-1
-> useful debugging strategy
Q4. What if the sum was over all classes? (including j=y_i)
loss increases by one
Q5. What if we used mean instead of sum?
doesn't change. It doesn't really matter
Q6. What if we used square term on top of this max?
This would be different.
Q7. Suppose that we found a W such that L = 0. Is this W unique?
No! 2W is also has L = 0!

Data loss: Model predictions should match training data
We don't really care about the training data performance

Regularization loss: Model should be "simple", so it works on test data

lambda: regularization strength (hyperparameter to tune)

Occam's Razor: Among competing hypothesis, the simplest is the best

Regularization
- L2 regularization(Weight Decay)
- L1 regularization : sparse solutions
- Elastic net(L1 + L2)
- Max norm regularization
- Dropout
- Fancier: Batch normalization, stochastic depth

Softmax Classfier(Cross-Entropy Loss)
(Multinomial Logistic Regression)
scores = unnormalized log probabilities of the classes

Want to maximize the log likelihood(1), or (for a loss function)
to minimize the negative log likelihood(0) of the correct class
Q1. What is the min/max possible loss L_i?
min= 0 / max=infinity
Q2. Usually at initialization W is small so all s~0. What is the loss?
log(C)
-> useful debugging strategy

Softmax vs. SVM
- SVM will get this data point over the bar to be correctly classified
and the just give up, it doesn't care about the data point anymore.
- Whereas softmax will always try to continually improve every single
data point to get better and better.

Recap
- dataset of (x,y)
- score function
- loss function: Softmax, SVM, Full loss

How do we find the best W?
-> Optimization: walking around large valley(height: loss)
Strategy #1: A first very bad idea solution: Random search
Strategy #2: Follow the slope(feel the local geometry)
In multiple dimensions, the gradient is the vector of (partial derivatives)
along each dimension
The slope in any direction is the dot product fo the direction with the gradient
The direction of steepest descent is the negative gradient

Numerical gradient: approximate, slow, easy to write
current W -> W + h -> gradient dW

This is silly. The loss is just a function of W
Calculus! Use calculus to compute an analytic gradient

Analytic gradient: exact, fast, error-prone
current W -> gradient dW

In practice: Always use analytic gradient, but check implementation with numerical gradient.
This is called a gradient check. (using as debugging tool)

Gradient Descent

Stochastic Gradient Descent(SGD)
Full sum expensive when N is large!
Approximate sum using a minibatch of examples (32/ 64/ 128 common)

Aside: Image Features

Image Features: Motivation
Cannot separate red and blue points with linear classifier.
After applying feature trasform,
points can be seperated by linear classifier.

Example: Color Histogram
color buckets

Example: Histogram of Oriented Gradients(HoG)
compute a histogram over these differnet edge orientations

Example: Bag of Words
1) Build codebook
Extract random patches -> Cluster patches to form "codebook" of "visual words"
2) Encode images

Image features vs. ConvNets
Image -> Feature Extraction -> 10 numbers giving scores for classes
Image -> ConvNets -> 10 numbers giving scores for classes
    <-------------------

Next time:
Introduction to neural networks
Backpropagation
