---
layout: post
title: cs231n Lecture5
subtitle: 신경망 학습 1(Training Neural Networks 1)
show-avatar: true
category: study
tags: [cs231n, Deep Learning, Computer Vision]
comments: true
---

Last time: Neural Networks
Linear score function: f = Wx
2-layer Neural Network: f = W_2max(0,W_1x)

Next: Convolutional Neural Networks

A bit of history
Frank Rosenblatt, ~1957: Perceptron
Widrow and Hoff, ~1960: Adaline/Madaline MLP
Rumelhart et al., 1986: First time back-propagation became popular
Hinton and Salakhutdinov, 2006 Reinvigorated research in Deep Learning
Alex Krizhevsky et al., 2012

Hubel & Wiesel 1959, 1962, 1968...
Topographical mapping in the cortex: nearby cells in cortex represent
nearby regions in the visual field

Hierarchical organization
Simple cells:  Response to light orientation
Complex cells: Response to light orientation and movement
Hypercomplex cells: Response to movement with an end point

Neurocognitron, Fukushima 1980
"sandwich" architecture (SCSCSC...)
simple cells: modifiable parameters
complex cells: perform pooling

LeCun et al. 1998, Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition
Krizhevsky et al. 2012, ImageNet Classification with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks

Fast-forward to today: ConvNets are everywhere
Classification
Retrieval
Detection : Faster R-CNN, 2015
Segmentation : Farabet et al., 2012
Face Recognition : Taigman et al. 2014
Video : Simonyan et al. 2014
Pose Recognition : Toshev, Szegedy 2014
Reinforcement Learning, Game Playing : Guo et al. 2014
Diagnose medical images : Levy et al. 2016
Classification galaxies : Dieleman et al. 2014
Street Sign Recognition : Sermanet et al. 2011
Whale Recognition, Kaggle Challenges
Maps : Mnih and Hinton, 2010
Image Captioning : Vinyals et al., 2015, Karpathy and Fei-Fei, 2015
Artwork : Justin~

Convolutional Neural Networks (First without the brain stuff)

Fully Connected Layer
32x32x3 image -> stretch to 3072 x 1

imput x -> Wx -> activation
3072x1 -> 10x3072, 3072x1 -> 10x1
1 number: the result of taking a dot product between a row of W
and the input(a 3072-dimensional dot product)

Convolutional Layer
32x32x3 image -> preserve spatial structure
heightxwidthxdepth

5x5x3 filter
Convolve the filter with the image
i.e "slide over the image spatially, computing dot products"

Filters always extend the full depth of the input volume

1 number:
the result of taking a dot product between the filter
and a small 5x5x3 chunk of the image
(i.e. 5*5*3 = 75-dimensional dot product + bias)

convolve(slide) over all spatial locations
-> activation map
32x32x3 -> 5x5x3 -> 28x28x1

consider a secon filter -> multiple filters -> activation maps
For example, if we had 6 5x5 filters, we'll get 5 seperate activation maps:
we stack these up to get a "new image" of size 28x28x6!

Preview: ConvNet is a sequence of Convolution Layers, intespersed with activation functions
32x32x3 -> CONV, RELU -> 28x28x6 -> CONV, RELU -> 24x24x10 -> CONV, RELU -> ...

low-level features -> mid-level features -> high-level features -> linearly seperable classifier ->
hierarchy

Zeiler and Fergus, 2013

one filter -> one activation map

we call the layer convolutional because it is related to convolution of two signals
elementwise multiplication and sum of a filter and the signal(image)

Input -> CONV, RELU ... -> ... POOL -> FC

A closer look at spatial dimensions:
32x32x3 image, 5x5x3 filter
-> convolve(slide) over all spatial locations
28x28x1 activation map

7x7 input (spatially) assume 3x3 filter -> 5x5 output
(with stride 2) -> 3x3 output
(with stride 3) -> doesn't fit!
cannot apply 3x3 filter on 7x7 input with stride 3

input size : N
filter size : F
Output Size: (N-F)/stride+1
e.g. N = 7, F = 3:
stride 1: (7-3)/1+1=5
stride 2: (7-3)/2+1=3
stride 3: (7-3)/3+1=2.33 (x)

In practice: Common to zero pad the border
e.g. 7x7 input, 3x3 filter, stride 1
pad with 1 pixel border -> what is the output?
7x7 output!

in general, common to see CONV layers with stride 1,
filters of size FxF, and zero-padding with (F-1)/2.
(will preserve size spatially)
F = 3 : zero pad with 1
F = 5 : zero pad with 2
F = 7 : zero pad with 3

Remember back to..
E.g. 32x32 input convolved repeatedly with 5x5 filters shrinks volumes spatially!
(32 -> 28 -> 24 ...) Shrinking too fast is not good, doesn't work well.

Examples time:
Input volume: 32x32x3
10 5x5 filters with stride 1, pad 2

Output Volume Size? 32x32x10
(N-F)/stride+1 = (32+2*2-5)/1+1 = 10

Number of parameters in this layer?
each filter has 5*5*3 + 1 = 76 params (+1 for bias)
76*10 = 760

Summary.
To Summarize the Conv Layer
volume W1xH1xD1
Requires 4 hyperparameters:
1) # filters K,
2) Filter size F,
3) stride S, 
4) zero padding P
Produces a volume of size W2xH2xD2
W2 = (W1-F+2P)/S+1
H2 = (H1-F+2P)/S+1
D2 = K

Common settings:
K = (powers of 2, e.g. 32, 64, 128, 512)
- F=3, S=1, P=1
- F=5, S=1, P=2
- F=5, S=2, P=?
- F=1, S=1, P=0

btw, 1x1 convolution layer make perfect sense

56x56x64 -> 32 filters 1x1 CONV ->56x56x32
each filter has size 1x1x64, and performs a 64-dimensional dot product

The brain/neuron view of CONV Layer

32x32x3 image -> 5x5x3 filter -> 1 number
It's just a neuron with local connectivity

An activation map is a 28x28 sheet of neuron ouputs:
1. Each is connected to a small region in the input
2. All of them share parameters
5x5 filter -> 5x5 receptive field for each neuron

E.g with 5 filters,
CONV layer consists of neurons arranged in a 3D grid(28x28x5)

There will be 5 different neurons all looking at the same region
in the input volume.

Reminder: Fully Connected Layer
32x32x3 image -> stretch to 3072x1
Each neuron looks at the full input volume
input x -> Wx -> activation
3072x1->10x3072 3072x1 -> 10x1

Pooling layer
- makes the representations smaller and more manageable
- operates over each activation map independently
224x224x64 -> pool -> 112x112x64 (downsampling)

Max Pooling
max pool with 2x2 filters and stride 2

Note that it is not common to use zero-padding for Pooling layers
Common settings:
F=2, S=2
F=3, S=2

Fully Connected Layer (FC Layer)
- Contains neurons that connect to the entire input volume,
as in ordinary Neural Networks

Summary
- ConvNets stack CONV - POOL - FC layers
- Trend towards smaller filters and deeper architectures
- Trend towards getting rid of POOL/FC layers (just CONV)
- Typical architectures look like
[(CONV-RELU)*N-POOL?]*M-(FC-RELU)*K,SOFTMAX
where N is usually up to ~5, M is large, 0<=K<=2
but recent advacnes such as ResNet/GoogLeNet challenge this paradigm
